-*- mode: text -*-

From 0.5 to 0.6
+ Bugs removed in lca. Some species' lineages are not resolved enough,
  resulting in an "early" end. Consider 
    $ taxonomy taxonomy sphyrna bull+shark
  where Sphyrna belongs to Carcharhinidae/Carcharhinus wile bull shark
  is Carcharhinidae. The lca is then Carcharhinidae, but lca could not
  handle that. 

  Also,
    $taxonomy human homo+sapiens | lca
  would go into an infinite loop.


From 0.4 to 0.5
+ Name change: Biblio is now called RefSense.

+ The package is starting to be rewritten as a module to be submitted
  to CPAN. This includes having documentation adapted to Perl's POD,
  restructuring of libs, etc. Not quite there yet though.

+ New program: scholar. This is similar to 'pubmed', although the
  query is simply handed over to Googles Scholar system, using the web
  browser of your choice (including lynx). The RefSense search terms
  are not (yet) supported!

+ New programs: taxonomy and lca. With taxonomy, you access NCBI's
  taxonomy database and retrieve lineage information. For instance,
  try 
	   $ taxonomy human
	   Scientific Name: Homo sapiens
	       Common Name: human
               Common Name: man
	              Rank: species
                  Division: Primates
                   Lineage: cellular organisms; Eukaryota;
                   Fungi/Metazoa group; Metazoa; Eumetazoa; Bilateria;
                   Coelomata; Deuterostomia; Chordata; Craniata;
                   Vertebrata; Gnathostomata; Teleostomi;
                   Euteleostomi; Sarcopterygii; Tetrapoda; Amniota;
                   Mammalia; Theria; Eutheria; Euarchontoglires;
                   Primates; Haplorrhini; Simiiformes; Catarrhini;
                   Hominoidea; Hominidae; Homo/Pan/Gorilla group; Homo

  (the wrap-around of the last line is not correct in this
  depiction!). You can have several taxa as arguments to 'taxonomy',
  and the program lca can read this and report the last common
  ancestor according to NCBI:                   
	   $ taxonomy mouse human|lca
	   Euarchontoglires

	   

From 0.3 to 0.4

+ Programs now expect you to set PERL5LIB to point to libraries.

+ In pmid2text, -h is changed to -html. In all programs, -u, -h, and
  --help are all equivalent.

+ pmid2www: As before, mozilla is used by default, but the environment
  variable BIBLIO_BROWSER can be set to mozilla, netscape, firefox or
  konqueror to change the preferred browser.

+ pmid2text: You can now get a link to an abstract at NCBI's PubMed
  using option -p.

+ pmid2www: Two new options, -p and -b, let you choose to view
  articles at NCBI's site or at biblio.cgb.ki.se. Also more user friendly.

+ pubmed: Now caches last search to allow for command line
  completion. 

+ pubmed: More userfriendly with a "usage string" and basic sanity
  checking. Thanks to Daniel Lundin.

+ All: Usage information is written to STDOUT, unless an error has
  occured. Thanks to Daniel Lundin.

+ All: Usage info has a pointer to the homepage, on a suggestion by
  Carlos MvEvilly.

+ pmcomplete: New program for generating completion information. A
  BASH user can register this command using for example
       complete -C pmcomplete pmid2text pmid2www pmid2bibtex
  to have those three commands pick PMIDs from the last search. The
  completion system is somewhat nonstandard. You can try to complete
  on both PMIDs and arbitrary text, such as authors. A completion is
  successful if either a unique PMID is derived or the matched text
  fragment is unique. In the latter case, an author name could be
  unique but exist several articles and all of them are returned. This
  feature might need some experimentation to appreciate.

+ Bugfix in Pubmed.pm, parse_article_medline: PMIDs starting with a
  zero were sometimes erroneosly handled. Contributed by E.A. Rödland.

+ An extension by E.A. Rödland makes Biblio handle substrings such as
  "Jr", "2nd", and "de la" in an agreeable fashion.


From 0.2 to 0.3:

+ pmid2related: New program

+ Minor changes in PubMed.pm to support pmid2related.

+ pmid2text: New output option: Link to the web version of biblio.

+ Can now handle error occurring on NCBI's side, where there a MEDLINE
  request does not return a record. Previous symptom was that the
  record did not have a PMID.

+ pmsearch: Journal abbreviations (mbe, ismb, et.c.) now work
  correctly, and the help text was updated.

+ pmsearch: Year ranges have been implemented. For instance, you can
  write
	pmsearch author=gribskov year=2000-2002
	pmsearch author=gribskov year=-2000 
	pmsearch author=gribskov year=2002-
  The range delimiter is either the pmsearch-specific but natural '-'
  as above, or PubMed's colon operator, i.e., year=2000:2002.

---

From 0.1 to 0.2:

+ pmid2bibtex: You can get article URLs in records with option -w.

+ pmid2bibtex: AuthorYear keys in records now use four digit years.

+ pmid2bibtex: PMID is always included in records.

+ New program: pmid2seq, for downloading nucleotide and protein
  sequences linked to articles. 



---

From 0.0 to 0.1:

1. pmid2bibtex
The bibtex key is by default composed as <authorname><pmid>, where
<pmid> is the PubMed identifier. This guarantees a unique id (thanks
to the pmid) and a little bit of mnemonic (thanks to the author
name). However, it might not fit in with your usual key-generation
scheme. Therefore, I have implemented an option '-ay' that sets the
key to <authorname><two-digit year>. So instead of "smith1234458948"
you would get "smith03". The drawback with this scheme is of course
that the keys are no longer guaranteed to be unique. 

I'd like to point out, that if you are using (x)emacs together with
AUC-TeX and the reftex minor mode, the standard scheme is not a
hassle, because you can search for citations and have them inserted
automatically into your document. Actually, even without reftex you
are pretty much set if you are using dynamic abbreviations
(dabbrev). You write something like "\cite{smith" and hit the
completion key. If your bib-file is in another buffer, the
smith-references will be found.

2. pmid2text
There are two new options:
-w    Output a URL that links to an online version of the
      article. This is through PubMed's elink utility and seems to
      work well for several journals. In some cases, the PDF is
      downloaded immediately, while in other cases (like Nature and
      Science) you get the full text in HTML.

-www  Output only the URL. This is mostly implemented for the next
      utility: 

3. pmid2www
This is a shell script that essentially is calling "pmid2text -www"
with the arguments to pmid2www. Then it calls mozilla with "remote
control" to open the running browser with the given URL. So no new
browser window is opened. There is a slight delay too due to how the
remote control feature works, but it is better than launching a brand
new browser.Most likely, adapting this script to any version of
netscape is simply a matter of replacing the call to "mozilla" with
whatever the executable for netscape is called. Netscape has had this
feature for a long time. 

Please note that pmid2www is more of a hack than the rest of the tools.

If you know what you are looking for, you can download an article
pretty quickly now. For example, try something like: 

   pubmed year=2002 journal=science savolainen leitner | pmid2www

I hope you'll find it useful. Please let me know if you use it, and if
you have ideas for improvements. 

